A few months back, a friend of mine and ex colleague, Wolfgang, became part of something extraordinary - a so called food coop. If you haven't heard of it, don't feel ashamed - While it's a great idea, it's also a ridiculously small movement. So, what is a food coop? There are several models, but in Wolfgang's case it's a group of people who share a certain amount of produce from a nearby organic farm on a weekly basis. All that produce is delivered, once a week, to a cellar in your neighborhood where you can pick up stuff within the limits of your share (which is defined by a certain amount of vegetables, fruit, meat (there are vegetable plans), flour etc. Your only other obligation apart from paying your monthly share which is, for the amount of produce you get, relatively small, given that you get really, really good organic food is to regularly take the part of stacking in the delivery and clean the place.

The only drawback: You need to find a food coop that's close enough to your home that you actually manage to incorporate the duties and fetching your share into your normal workflow, which is the only explanation why I still haven't joined a food coop. 

I'm a long standing fan of the principle behind coops. For most of my life, I've been living in coop based flats and houses.  So what exactly are coops, and why do I think they are a definitely underrated form of organisation? 

At it's core, coops are just a special form of a commercial entity, one based on membership - You buy a share in the coop and, boom, you are a member. Usually, in contrast to a publicly traded company, you gain special rights by becoming a member, such as that you are actually allowed to rent a flat or that you are allowed to claim your share of produce. Also, as I understand it, they have an interesting property: As a member, you have both the right to be elected as a boardmember, and to elect the board - But unlike a publicly traded company, your votes do not scale with the number of shares you hold - which makes coops uninteresting for unfriendly takeovers and other maneuvers so common these days on the stock market.

Back in the days, at least in germany, coops where highly valued and, as long as they could show they were acting in public interest ("gemeinnützig" in german), they had special tax exempts (I may be wrong but I seem to remember that most of those were eradicated somewhere in the 1980's. It's not entirely clear to me what lead to the demise of coops in general, but somehow they both were valued less by politics and somehow us lost interest in it as well. Housing coops are the only stronghold - I don't even know if Wolfgang's food coop is a proper coop in the german law sense. 

And then there's one other place where, out of the blue, a coop pops up, because it seems to be the only form that makes sense for the given job: Administer the .de country TLD, in a way that's almost like a state body, with the same independence and neutrality, except that it should be a private company. One where it's impossible for a big player (think Google, Facebook, 1 & 1 etc.) to take over the business. 

Given my interactions with the Denic and other NICs, I find this to be a very wise choice.

